performance.md, before:

# 🏃 Performance

## Compilers (development performance)

Use Vite and avoid Webpack. Vite uses the native ES modules feature in the browser to handle imports, while webpack and Parcel use a more traditional approach of bundling all the files together. This allows for faster development builds and hot module replacement with Vite.

## Lazy loading

Lazy loading is a design pattern. It allows you to load parts of your application on-demand to reduce the initial load time. For example, you can initially load the components and modules related to your homepage. Then, you can load the rest of the components based on user navigation.

### Advantages

- Reduces initial loading time by reducing the bundle size.
- Reduces browser workload.
- Improves application performance in low bandwidth situations.
- Improves user experience at initial loading.
- Optimizes resource usage.

### Disadvantages

- No performance improvement for small-scale applications.
- Placeholders can slow down quick scrolling.
- Requires additional communication with the server to fetch resources.

## Data fetching

Smart implementations of data fetching can improve your applications performance drastically. Some examples of data fetching implementations:

- Avoid fetching the same data multiple times. Store data that is used on every page rather than fetching the samen data every page render.
- Fetch extra data separate from the initial page load. The page is already shown to the user, giving the user a faster experience. Extra data that is fetched can be indicated by showing loading indicators
- Stale while revalidating. @TODO: https://jira.wearetriple.com/browse/TRIWTR-22
- When fetching large amounts of data, try to implement pagination to limit the data that is processed at once.

## Animations
- Try to get the max frame rate when creating animations. 60fps should be the bottomline. Some screens have higher framerate, try to get the max out of it.
- CSS > Javascript. When using animations it is adviced to use css animations over js animations. The performance for css animation is better in most cases.

## React specific
- useMemo. A React Hook that lets you cache the result of a <b>expensive</b> calculation between re-renders.
- DevTools Profiler. This is a great tool to find out why re-renders are happening and for finding bottlenecks.
- Careful with spreading props

## Svelte specific
At this point there are no specific performance best practices for Svelte.

#### Sources

- https://medium.com/trendyol-tech/vite-webpack-killer-or-something-else-87019b4aeca2
- https://www.syncfusion.com/blogs/post/lazy-loading-with-react-an-overview.aspx
- https://react.dev/reference/react/useMemo
- https://react.dev/learn/react-developer-tools

Commit message:

Updated react and svelte specific points

performance.md, after:

# 🏃 Performance

## Compilers (development performance)

Use Vite and avoid Webpack. Vite uses the native ES modules feature in the browser to handle imports, while webpack and Parcel use a more traditional approach of bundling all the files together. This allows for faster development builds and hot module replacement with Vite.

## Lazy loading

Lazy loading is a design pattern. It allows you to load parts of your application on-demand to reduce the initial load time. For example, you can initially load the components and modules related to your homepage. Then, you can load the rest of the components based on user navigation.

### Advantages

- Reduces initial loading time by reducing the bundle size.
- Reduces browser workload.
- Improves application performance in low bandwidth situations.
- Improves user experience at initial loading.
- Optimizes resource usage.

### Disadvantages

- No performance improvement for small-scale applications.
- Placeholders can slow down quick scrolling.
- Requires additional communication with the server to fetch resources.

## Data fetching

Smart implementations of data fetching can improve your applications performance drastically. Some examples of data fetching implementations:

- Avoid fetching the same data multiple times. Store data that is used on every page rather than fetching the samen data every page render.
- Fetch extra data separate from the initial page load. The page is already shown to the user, giving the user a faster experience. Extra data that is fetched can be indicated by showing loading indicators
- Stale while revalidating. @TODO: https://jira.wearetriple.com/browse/TRIWTR-22
- When fetching large amounts of data, try to implement pagination to limit the data that is processed at once.

## Animations
- Try to get the max frame rate when creating animations. 60fps should be the bottomline. Some screens have higher framerate, try to get the max out of it.
- CSS > Javascript. When using animations it is adviced to use css animations over js animations. The performance for css animation is better in most cases.

## React specific
- useMemo. A React Hook that lets you cache the result of a <b>expensive</b> calculation between re-renders.
- DevTools Profiler. This is a great tool to find out why re-renders are happening and for finding bottlenecks.

## Svelte specific
- Spreading props can decrease performance because Svelte is reactive per prop.
- React will warn you about not using keys in maps, Svelte will not do this in an #each. Make sure you always add keys in your #each loops.

#### Sources

- https://medium.com/trendyol-tech/vite-webpack-killer-or-something-else-87019b4aeca2
- https://www.syncfusion.com/blogs/post/lazy-loading-with-react-an-overview.aspx
- https://react.dev/reference/react/useMemo
- https://react.dev/learn/react-developer-tools
